
https://youtu.be/7eruPYTOZb0 - Trump: 'I Promise You I Will Not Let You Down'. - Donald J Trump


Jewish Press

http://www.jewishpress.com/news/breaking-news/complete-list-of-the-trump-campaigns-promises-to-israel/2016/11/09/

1. The unbreakable bond between the United States and Israel is based upon shared values of democracy, freedom of speech, respect for minorities, cherishing life, and the opportunity for all citizens to pursue their dreams.

2. Israel is the state of the Jewish people, who have lived in that land for 3,500 years. The State of Israel was founded with courage and determination by great men and women against enormous odds and is an inspiration to people everywhere who value freedom and human dignity.

3. Israel is a staunch ally of the U.S. and a key partner in the global war against Islamic jihadism. Military cooperation and coordination between Israel and the U.S. must continue to grow.

4. The American people value our close friendship and alliance with Israel — culturally, religiously, and politically. While other nations have required U.S. troops to defend them, Israelis have always defended their own country by themselves and only ask for military equipment assistance and diplomatic support to do so. The U.S. does not need to nation-build in Israel or send troops to defend Israel.

5. The Memorandum of Understanding signed by the American and Israeli Governments is a good first step, but there is much more to be done. A Trump Administration will ensure that Israel receives maximum military, strategic and tactical cooperation from the United States, and the MOU will not limit the support that we give. Further, Congress will not be limited to give support greater than that provided by the MOU if it chooses to do so. Israel and the United States benefit tremendously from what each country brings to the table — the relationship is a two way street.

6. The U.S. should veto any United Nations votes that unfairly single out Israel and will work in international institutions and forums, including in our relations with the European Union, to oppose efforts to delegitimize Israel, impose discriminatory double standards against Israel, or to impose special labeling requirements on Israeli products or boycotts on Israeli goods.

7. The U.S. should cut off funds for the UN Human Rights Council, a body dominated by countries presently run by dictatorships that seems solely devoted to slandering the Jewish State. UNESCO’s attempt to disconnect the State of Israel from Jerusalem is a one-sided attempt to ignore Israel’s 3,000-year bond to its capital city, and is further evidence of the enormous anti-Israel bias of the United Nations.

8. The U.S. should view the effort to boycott, divest from, and sanction (BDS) Israel as inherently anti-Semitic and take strong measures, both diplomatic and legislative, to thwart actions that are intended to limit commercial relations with Israel, or persons or entities doing business in Israeli areas, in a discriminatory manner. The BDS movement is just another attempt by the Palestinians to avoid having to commit to a peaceful co-existence with Israel. The false notion that Israel is an occupier should be rejected.

9. The Trump administration will ask the Justice Department to investigate coordinated attempts on college campuses to intimidate students who support Israel.

10. A two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinians appears impossible as long as the Palestinians are unwilling to renounce violence against Israel or recognize Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state. Additionally, the Palestinians are divided between PA rule in the West Bank and Hamas rule in Gaza so there is not a united Palestinian people who could control a second state. Hamas is a US-designated terrorist organization that actively seeks Israel’s destruction. We will seek to assist the Israelis and the Palestinians in reaching a comprehensive and lasting peace, to be freely and fairly negotiated between those living in the region.

11. The Palestinian leadership, including the PA, has undermined any chance for peace with Israel by raising generations of Palestinian children on an educational program of hatred of Israel and Jews. The larger Palestinian society is regularly taught such hatred on Palestinian television, in the Palestinian press, in entertainment media, and in political and religious communications. The two major Palestinian political parties — Hamas and Fatah — regularly promote anti-Semitism and jihad.

13. The U.S. cannot support the creation of a new state where terrorism is financially incentivized, terrorists are celebrated by political parties and government institutions, and the corrupt diversion of foreign aid is rampant. The U.S. should not support the creation of a state that forbids the presence of Christian or Jewish citizens, or that discriminates against people on the basis of religion.

14. The U.S. should support direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians without preconditions, and will oppose all Palestinian, European and other efforts to bypass direct negotiations between parties in favor of an imposed settlement. Any solutions imposed on Israel by outside parties including by the United Nations Security Council, should be opposed. We support Israel’s right and obligation to defend itself against terror attacks upon its people and against alternative forms of warfare being waged upon it legally, economically, culturally, and otherwise.

15. Israel’s maintenance of defensible borders that preserve peace and promote stability in the region is a necessity. Pressure should not be put on Israel to withdraw to borders that make attacks and conflict more likely.

16. The U.S. will recognize Jerusalem as the eternal and indivisible capital of the Jewish state and Mr. Trump’s Administration will move the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem.

17. Despite the Iran Nuclear deal in 2015, the U.S. State Department recently designated Iran, yet again, as the leading state sponsor of terrorism — putting the Middle East particularly, but the whole world at risk by financing, arming, and training terrorist groups operating around the world including Hamas, Hezbollah, and forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The U.S. must counteract Iran’s ongoing violations of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding Iran’s quest for nuclear weapons and their noncompliance with past and present sanctions, as well as the agreements they signed, and implement tough, new sanctions when needed to protect the world and Iran’s neighbors from its continuing nuclear and non-nuclear threats.

http://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2016-election/full-list-donald-trump-s-rapidly-changing-policy-positions-n547801

IMMIGRATION
1. Build a wall, deport all undocumented immigrants.

Trump's campaign began with a promise to build a wall across the United States' southern border and deport the country's 11 million undocumented immigrants.

2. Deport all undocumented immigrants but bring the "good" ones back legally.

In a CNN interview in July 2015, Trump said, "I want to move them out, and we're going to move them back in and let them be legal, but they have to be in here legally."

PlayFROM AUG. 15, 2015: Obama's Immigration Executive Order Will Be 'Rescinded,' Trump Vows Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM AUG. 15, 2015: Obama's Immigration Executive Order Will Be 'Rescinded,' Trump Vows 0:27
3. Build the wall, deport criminals, triple the number of ICE officers, end birthright citizenship.
In August 2015, Trump released a detailed, sprawling immigration plan that included a wide variety of ideas: Build the wall, make Mexico pay for it, deport criminal aliens, enhance penalties for overstaying visas, triple the number of ICE officers, pause immigration to try and employ unemployed Americans, cut worker visas and more. Trump's plan didn't detail how he'd enact most of his proposals, or how he'd pay for them. He's walked back or modified much of it since.
4. Use a deportation force to implement policy.

In November 2015, Trump said he'd use a mass deportation force in order to remove the 11 million people.

"You're going to have a deportation force. And your going to do it humanely," Trump said in November on MSNBC.

5. Trump might be flexible on actually deporting 11 million undocumented immigrants.

BuzzFeed reported in February 2016 that in off-the-record talks with The New York Times, Trump admitted this was just bluster and a starting point for negotiations, saying he might not deport the undocumented immigrants as he's promised. Trump has refused calls to release the transcript, despite furious requests from his rival candidates.

6. Deport undocumented immigrants, but don't call it "mass deportations."

"President Obama has mass deported vast numbers of people — the most ever, and it's never reported. I think people are going to find that I have not only the best policies, but I will have the biggest heart of anybody," Trump told Bloomberg News in June 2016 when pressed about his immigration policies.

When asked more about how he'd characterize the deportations at the center of his immigration policy, Trump said he "would not call it mass deportations."

7. A deportation force is "TBD."

Trump's newly hired campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, dodged questions on the deportation force in August 2016 before saying that Trump's much-talked about deportation force from the primary was "to be determined."

8. "I'm gonna do the same" as past presidents.

Trump championed President Obama's immigration strategy — deporting criminals first — in an interview with Fox News on Monday, August 22 when asked about how he'd deport 11 million illegal immigrants. He declined to answer questions of how he'd handle those who aren't criminals.

9. I'm open to "softening."

The next day, Trump told attendees of a town hall hosted by Fox News in Texas that he was open to "softening" laws to help immigrants already living in the United States peacefully. However, he followed that by saying that those who had overstayed visas — one of the key ways undocumented immigrants get into the U.S. — had to leave. "You have to get them out. You have to get them out," Trump said.

It's unclear what or how he's softening his policy.

10. "There's no amnesty" but "we work with them."

In an interview with Fox News' Sean Hannity that aired Wednesday, August 24, Trump outlined an immigration plan that sounded an awful lot like the kind of path to legalization championed by Gov. Jeb Bush and Sen. Marco Rubio — the very people Trump excoriated for weak immigration plans while he campaigned on a promise of mass deportations.

"No citizenship. Let me go a step further — they'll pay back-taxes, they have to pay taxes, there's no amnesty, as such, there's no amnesty, but we work with them," Trump said.

11. Deport "criminal illegal immigrants" within one hour of being sworn in.

Trump worked to sound strong on illegal immigration at an event in Iowa on Saturday, August 27 — even if he was simply presenting a warp-speed version of current policy.

"On day one, I am going to begin swiftly removing criminal illegal immigrants from this country," he said. "We are going to get rid of the criminals, and it will happen within one hour" of being sworn in.

Trump did not discuss how he would approach the millions of other undocumented immigrants, nor did he explain how he could accomplish implementing current policy so quickly.

12. What's the plan again?

On Sunday, August 28, three Trump surrogates took to the airwaves to insist that Trump's immigration plan hadn't changed. But their answers on what that plan actually was — and is — only added to the confusion.

Running mate Gov. Mike Pence said there would be no path to citizenship, while Gov. Chris Christie said there would be no legalization at all. Campaign manager Kellyanne Conway dodged answering the question completely, simply saying he'd be humane.

"The question is what to do," she said.

13. A deportation force is not currently being discussed.

Conway built on her August 28 interview when she said a deportation force was to be decided by saying it wasn't presently being discussed.

"He is not talking about a deportation force," she said.

14. The plan — whatever the plan is — has never changed.

"Absolutely consistent," said Pence.

"Completely consistent," said Christie.

"Pretty consistent," said Conway.

15. Deport all undocumented immigrants in due time, using a deportation force.

Two more surrogates muddled Trump's immigration policy just days later.

Son Donald Trump, Jr. told CNN on August 30 that his father hoped to deport everyone.

"That's been the same, correct. But again, you have to start with baby steps. You have to let ICE do their job, you have to eliminate sanctuary cities, you have to get rid of the criminals certainly first and foremost, you have to secure the border. These are common sense things, Anderson," he said.

Meanwhile, Trump surrogate Jack Kingston told MSNBC that a deportation force "is part of it. We are going to learn more Wednesday."

16. Don't worry, hardliners. There's no amnesty and Mexico will pay!

In a speech in Phoenix on September 1 Trump eased base concerns and re-upped his harsh immigration rhetoric by insisting that he would create a deportation task force, and there would be no "amnesty."

Mere hours after meeting with the Mexican president who later said he'd told Trump that Mexico wouldn't pay for the wall, Trump reiterated that he still planned to make Mexico pay for the wall.

17. But "there's really quite a bit of softening."

Later the day, Trump was pressed by conservative commentator Laura Ingraham about what had happened to "the softening" of his policy. He said "there's softening," but didn't indicate what, exactly, was softening.

"Look, we do it in a very humane way, and we're going to see with the people that are in the country. Obviously I want to get the gang members out, the drug peddlers out, I want to get the drug dealers out. We've got a lot of people in this country that you can't have, and those people we'll get out," Trump said. "And then we're going to make a decision at a later date once everything is stabilized ... I think you're going to see there's really quite a bit of softening."

18. I won't rule out a path to citizenship.

Asked September 6 if he'd rule out a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, Trump declined.

"I'm not ruling out anything," Trump said. "We're going to make that decision into the future. OK?"
19. We'll pay for the wall, Mexico will pay us back, OK?

"The End Illegal Immigration act fully funds the construction of a wall on our southern border," Trump said on October 22nd, outlining the plans for his first 100 days in office. "With the full understanding that the country of Mexico will be reimbursing the United States for the full cost of such a wall, OK?"

Current position: Trump says he will deport millions, but he has not ruled out creating a pathway to citizenship. He'll build a wall, pay for said wall, but later he'll get reimbursed by Mexico.

YOUNG UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS AND CHILDREN OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS
1. Dreamers can maybe stay.

Trump wavered on what to do with the Dreamers — young undocumented immigrants who were brought to this country by their parents as children who are now afforded limited protection from deportation via the DREAM Act but no path to citizenship.

When asked if Dreamers would have to go back, he said, "It depends."

2. Nope, they can't stay.

By August 2015, that ambiguity was gone: "They have to go," he said on "Meet the Press."

3. End birthright citizenship.

Trump first proposed ending the 14th Amendment — the Constitutional provision that grants citizenship to those born in the country — last August. This is something few in his party agree on, and it's even more unclear how it would be applied: Does it apply to children of mixed status parents, where one parent is illegal? Or simply those with two undocumented immigrant parents? Would he revoke the citizenship of the estimated 4.5 million children born to illegal immigrants already here?

The Trump campaign did not answer questions from reporters at the time.

4. "American children" also deserve dreams.

"Where is the sanctuary for American children?" Trump asked during a late August rally while alluding Dreamers.

"The dreamers we never talk about are the young Americans. Why aren't young Americans dreamers also? I want my dreamers to be young Americans," he said, offering up a rhetorical device in place of policy.

Current position: Deport children benefiting for the DREAM Act and repeal the 14th Amendment to end birthright citizenship.

PROPOSED MUSLIM BAN
1. No Muslims should be allowed to enter the United States —as immigrants or visitors.

Donald Trump called for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States" in a statement about "preventing Muslim immigration" in December.

2. Ban Muslims from entering but make an exception for friends and Muslims serving in the US military.

He later amended his stance in an interview with Fox News, saying the 5,000 Muslims serving the United States military would be exempt from the ban and allowed to return home from overseas deployments. He also suggested that current Muslim residents — like his "many Muslim friends" — would be exempt, too, and able to come and go freely.

3. The Muslim ban was just an suggestion.

"We have a serious problem, and it's a temporary ban - it hasn't been called for yet, nobody's done it, this is just a suggestion until we find out what's going on," Trump said on in mid-May, softening for the first time in months on the ban.

4. Ban Muslims as a matter of policy, as well as people from countries with a history of terrorism.

In a national security address after the terror attack in Orlando, Trump said that if he's elected he would "suspend immigration from areas of the world where there's a proven history of terrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies until we fully understand how to end these threats."

5. Ban people from countries with a history of terrorism.

When a reporter asked Trump how he'd feel about a Muslim Scot entering the U.S. while on a trip to visit his golf courses in Scotland, Trump said it "wouldn't bother me." He then went on to emphasize that he did not want "people coming in from the terror countries." When asked, Trump would not name one such country.

6. Ban Muslims from countries with a history of terrorism, and potentially also other Muslims.

That same day, when pressed about how his statement in Scotland jived with Trump's proposal to ban all Muslims from entering the country, spokesman Hope Hicks said that the ban would just apply to Muslims from countries with a history of terrorism. She would not, however, confirm that Muslims residing in peaceful countries would be exempt.

7. The Muslim ban was never about Muslims.

The next week, one spokesperson wrongly said the initial ban was not about Muslims.

"I know the news media has been reporting that the initial ban was against all Muslims, and that simply was not the case. It's simply for Muslim immigration, and Mr. Trump is adding specifics to clarify what his position is," Katrina Pierson told CNN, though advisers at the time said it was indeed about religion exclusively.

8. Nothing has changed, nothing to see here.

"This is not accurate," spokesperson Hope Hicks said when asked if the policies were changing and removing the word "Muslim." "There has been no change from the exchanges over the weekend."

9. The ban is negotiable.

Then-campaign manager Paul Manafort in late May said the Muslim ban was negotiable, and how Trump initially articulated it was not what it would turn out in the end. Manafort said the policy is currently that "where there is terrorist activity — Syria or Iraq — we will temporarily suspend immigration until we can establish a vetting system in which we can identify who people are who are coming in."

The government already has a rigorous, nine-step vetting process in place for refugees. Trump has previously included all Syrian refugees, including children and non-Muslims, in the ban.

10. The ban would call for "extreme vetting."

Mid July, Trump told "60 Minutes" that people from suspicious "territories" would receive "a thing called 'extreme vetting.'" He did not describe how "extreme vetting" would differ from the current vetting process.

"Call it whatever you want," Trump told CBS when asked if he was changing his previously released policy.

11. The ban hasn't changed, I just don't like saying the word "Muslim."

On Fox News in late July, Trump told Sean Hannity his position hadn't changed from his initial ban on Muslims entering the country.

"I think my position's gotten bigger, I'm talking about territories now. People don't want me to say Muslim—I guess I'd prefer not saying it, frankly, myself. So we're talking about territories."

12. There's a ban, plus "extreme vetting" that includes an ideological test.

"The time is overdue to develop a new screening test for the threats we face today," Trump said in a speech in mid-August that reiterated his call for "extreme vetting" and reiterated that he'd temporarily ban immigration from some countries that he declined to identify.

He then proposed an ideological test for immigration.

"In addition to screening out all members or sympathizers of terrorist groups, we must also screen out any who have hostile attitudes toward our country or its principles ― or who believe that Sharia law should supplant American law," he said.

13. There's no way to really do an ideological test.

"We don't know if they have love or hate in their heart," Trump said in September, articulating the problem many onlookers have expressed about his ban. "There's no way to tell."

14. Only people who love America are allowed.

Later, despite acknowledging the impossibility of the task, Trump maintained that an ideological test is key to the nation's immigration system.

"We want to make sure we're only admitting those into our country who support our values and love - and I mean love - our people," he said.

15. The ban has "morphed."

Trump was pressed on whether or not the Muslim ban still exists during the second presidential debate, and insisted that it was now only extreme vetting.

"The Muslim ban is something that in some form has morphed into an extreme vetting from certain areas of the world," Trump said, without actually saying whether or not the ban on travel still stands. "It's called extreme vetting."

PlayFROM OCTOBER 9: Trump: Muslim Ban Has Morphed Into 'Extreme Vetting' Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM OCTOBER 9: Trump: Muslim Ban Has Morphed Into 'Extreme Vetting' 0:57
Current position: Trump will not say whether or not he intends to ban people of Muslim faith from the U.S., but he will say that "extreme vetting" will apply to people from certain countries. It's unclear where those countries are, what "extreme vetting" entails or how he intends to institute an ideological test for entry.

WHETHER PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS BORN IN AMERICA
1. I don't know.

"I really don't know. I mean, I don't know why he wouldn't release his records. But you know, honestly, I don't want to get into it," Trump said in July 2015, asked about his inaccurate, years-long insistence that the president wasn't born in the United States. (President Obama had released his long form birth certificate in 2011.)

2. I don't want to answer the question.

"I don't talk about that anymore," Trump said on MSNBC in December 2015 in response to a question about whether or not he believed President Obama was born in the United States.

3. I'll explain my theory one day.

"Who knows [if Obama is a natural-born citizen]? Who knows? Who cares right now? We're talking about something else, OK? I'm going to have my own theory on Obama. Someday I'll write a book, I'll do another book that will do successfully," Trump said in January 2016.

4. I'll only answer that question at the "right time."

"I'll answer that question at the right time," Trump said mid-September 2016. "I just don't want to answer it yet."

5. The president was born in the United States. "Period."

"President Barack Obama was born in the United States, period," Trump said after a lengthy press conference touting his new hotel and veteran support.

PlayFROM SEPTEMBER 16: Trump: Obama Was Born in the United States, Period Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM SEPTEMBER 16: Trump: Obama Was Born in the United States, Period 0:43
6. She started it, I finished it by getting the birth certificate.

In his dismissal of the conspiracy theory he'd championed, Trump inaccurately claimed that Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton started the conspiracy theory.

7. I only said it to "get on" with the campaign.

Asked what changed to prompt his reversal after nurturing a conspiracy theory for five years, Trump said he acknowledged the president's birthplace to "get on with — I wanted to get on with the campaign."

8. I didn't say Obama was American because no one was asking.

Pressed in the first debate on September 26 on why Trump didn't lay the birther conspiracy to rest in the five years after Obama released his long-form birth certificate, the Republican candidate falsely claimed he didn't publicly affirm his belief that Obama is an American citizen because he wasn't asked.

"Well, nobody was pressing it, nobody was caring much about it," Trump said. "I figured you'd ask the question tonight, of course. But nobody was caring much about it"

9. Clinton started it, and she's the one who should apologize, not me.

Trump inaccurately insisted, again, that Clinton's campaign started the rumor, and said she should apologize to the president for it.

Current position: Trump said he believes Obama was born in the United States because it is better for his campaign, but he continues to inaccurately argue Clinton started the birther movement — and that she should apologize for it.

DEFEATING ISIS
1. Maybe send troops in. Definitely go after the oil fields.

In Trump's first interview after announcing his bid, he signaled that he'd both send in ground troops to Iraq and not send in ground troops.

"You bomb the hell out of them, and then you encircle it, and then you go in," he told Bill O'Reilly, who remarked that the plan necessitated ground forces. "I disagree, I say that you can defeat ISIS by taking their wealth — their wealth is the oil."

2. Bomb the oil fields. Send some troops in.

On CNN, Trump said, "I would bomb the hell out of those oil fields. I wouldn't send many troops because you won't need them by the time I'm finished."

PlayFROM MARCH 30: Trump Declines to Rule Out Using Nuclear Weapons Against ISIS Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM MARCH 30: Trump Declines to Rule Out Using Nuclear Weapons Against ISIS 1:59
3. Send troops to defeat ISIS. Don't forget about the oil fields.

In a single August interview on NBC's "Meet the Press," he offered three solutions for what to do with the oil field profits: keep them, give them to veterans and their families, or, when pressed, perhaps give some to the Iraqi people.

Months later, in a March debate, Trump ballparked the number of troops he would need to send in to defeat ISIS.

"We really have no choice, we have to knock out ISIS," Trump said. "I would listen to the generals, but I'm hearing numbers of 20,000-30,000."

4. I've got this! I know more than the generals.

"I know more about ISIS than the generals do," Trump said in November in Iowa. "Believe me."

5. Destroy the oil. Let our regional allies send ground troops. If they don't, stop buying their oil.

In a foreign-policy focused interview with the New York Times published March 26, Trump said that the U.S. should "take" ISIS' oil, but then said the U.S. should "knock the hell out of the oil and do it because it's a primary source of money for ISIS." Trump also ruled out sending in U.S. troops, saying that other countries in the region — "regional Arab partners" such as Saudi Arabia — should provide the ground troops. If these countries did not, the United States would stop buying their oil and withhold "protection" in the region.

6. Declare war, send in some troops.

"We're going to declare war against ISIS. We have to wipe out ISIS," Trump said in his first interview with running mate Gov. Mike Pence. "I am going to have very few troops on the ground. We're going to have unbelievable intelligence, which we need; which, right now, we don't have. We don't have the people over there."

Trump said he'd involve NATO, despite the fact that he has said the U.S. should withdraw from NATO, and the surrounding states, as well. He added that Hillary Clinton created ISIS. (PolitiFact deemed this statement to be false.)

7. I'm going to ask the generals.

Months after saying he knew more than the generals, Trump said in early September that he'd ask them to map out a plan for defeating ISIS.

"Immediately after taking office, I will ask my generals to present to me a plan within 30 days to defeat and destroy ISIS," he said. "This will require military warfare, but also cyber warfare, financial warfare, and ideological warfare."

8. He's got a plan, and he'll tell you if asked.

"I've heard it," Trump campaign manager Kellyanne Conway said on MSNBC. "He'll tell you if that question is asked. He'll be happy to offer specifics without telling the enemy exactly what we're going to do."

9. Do more with computers.

Trump cited his 10-year-old's proficiency with computers to argue that the U.S. needed to better fight ISIS using the internet.

"When you look at what ISIS is doing with the Internet, they're beating us at our own game, ISIS," Trump said. "So we have to get very, very tough on cyber and cyber warfare. It is — it is a huge problem. I have a son. He's 10 years old. He has computers. He is so good with these computers, it's unbelievable. The security aspect of cyber is very, very tough. And maybe it's hardly doable."

Current position: It's still unclear what Trump's plan to defeat ISIS is, but it will involve computers and it will be tough.

'FIRST USE' AND NUCLEAR ARMS
1. I wouldn't strike first.

Asked during the first presidential debate about whether he'd support 'first use," an un-official U.S. prohibition on the use of nuclear weapons against enemies who don't have nuclear capability, Trump said he wouldn't strike first -- a completely different issue.

"I would like everybody to end it, just get rid of it," he said of nuclear weapons. "But I would certainly not do first strike."

PlayFROM SEPTEMBER 24: Trump: 'Can't Take Anything Off the Table' with Nuclear Weapons Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM SEPTEMBER 24: Trump: 'Can't Take Anything Off the Table' with Nuclear Weapons 0:58
2. Or maybe I would.

Shortly after saying he wouldn't do the first strike, Trump then reversed himself.

"At the same time, we have to be prepared. I can't take anything off the table. Because you look at some of these countries, you look at North Korea, we're doing nothing there," he said.

Current Position: It's unclear where Trump stands on "first use," or if he'd be willing to strike first.

MINIMUM WAGE

1. Against raising the minimum wage. Jobs would move to China.

During the thick of the primaries, Trump repeatedly argued that raising the minimum would move jobs to countries like China. Speaking in the cold language of a businessman looking at his bottom line, Trump even seemed to indicate overall American wages, regardless of the law, were too generous already.

"Taxes too high, wages too high, we're not going to be able to compete against the world," Trump said in a November debate hosted by Fox Business. Trump clarified afterwards that he did not believe American wages were too high, but he did make crystal clear he was fundamentally opposed to a minimum wage increase.

2. Wages should be raised through economic growth.

Trump in an interview with CNBC in May said he would prefer to try to raise wages through economic growth. His abrupt move toward a possible increase that he opposed in tough terms is a significant general election shift.

3. Raise the minimum wage.

"I am looking at it, and I haven't decided in terms of numbers. But I think people have to get more," Trump said on ABC on May 8, acknowledging that his statement was a shift when pressed.

"Sure, it's a change. I'm allowed to change," he said. "But my real minimum wage is going to be — I'm going to bring companies back into this country, and they're going to make a lot more than the $15 even."

4. Get rid of the federal minimum wage, leave it to the states.

On NBC on the same day, Trump said more specifically that he wanted states to mandate wages.

"Let me just tell you, I've been traveling the country for many months. Since June 16, I'm all over," he said. "I have seen what's going on. And I don't know how people make it on $7.25 an hour. Now, with that being said, I would like to see an increase of some magnitude. But I'd rather leave it to the states. Let the states decide. Because don't forget, the states have to compete with each other."

5. I want to increase it!

In a May 11 tweet criticizing Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, Trump argued that he was "asking for increase" of the federal minimum wage.

6. States should change it, but it will hurt them.

"I actually think that the states should make the decision," Trump said in an interview with a Seattle radio station, but argued that "In some cases, states are going to become noncompetitive, and they're going to start losing maybe jobs and losing business, and they're going to have to readjust. Otherwise, they're just not going to have anything."

7. Let's make it $10 dollars an hour.

As the Washington Post notes, Trump's shift here are lengthy and significant: He says he would support raising it to $10 an hour, argues he never wanted to abolish the federal minimum wage, which he did.

8. It should go up, but states should call the shots here.

In a June news conference, Trump said "the minimum wage has to go up. People are — at least $10, but it has to go up. But I think that states — federal — I think that states should really call the shot."

Current position: Raise it to $10 an hour, ignore what I said before.

PlayFROM MARCH 29: California is poised to raise minimum wage to $15 an hour Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM MARCH 29: California is poised to raise minimum wage to $15 an hour 0:19
TAXES
1. The wealthy should pay more.

"I would take carried interest out, and I would let people making hundreds of millions of dollars a year pay some tax, because right now they are paying very little tax and I think it's outrageous," Trump told Bloomberg last August, noting that he'd be OK paying more taxes. "I want to lower taxes for the middle class."

2. Cut taxes for the wealthy big time.

In September, Trump released a plan that silenced anti-tax critics with a proposal that slashed taxes for the wealthy by making the top marginal tax rate 25 percent. He radically simplified the tax plan by proposing just three brackets, 10 percent, 20 percent, and 25 percent. A whopping 67 percent of the overall cost of his individual tax cuts would go to the top 20 percent of earners, while 35 percent of it would go to the top 1 percent, according to the Tax Policy Center's analysis.

His plan is estimated to cut $10 trillion in tax revenue, which would be added to the national debt and deficit over a decade (more on Trump's flip-flopping position on paying off the national debt below). It's unclear how Trump would pay for such drastic cuts, but Trump insisted he could do it by offering the vague promise of striking better deals and cutting government waste.

3. People like me should pay more.

Trump was asked again in April during a "TODAY" town hall if he believed in raising taxes on the wealthy. Despite the big tax cuts for the wealthy outlined in his own tax plan, he said:

"I do, I do, including myself. I do."

In a series of interviews in early May, he claimed that his tax proposal was a starting point for negotiations and the taxes on the rich would go up.

On Sunday, May 8, Trump told ABC that taxes on the wealthy would "go up a little bit" in negotiations and that, as a wealthy person himself, he is personally OK with higher taxes. "I am willing to pay more. And you know what? Wealthy are willing to pay more. We've had a very good run," he said.

He told NBC's Chuck Todd something similar: It's all negotiable.

"Under my proposal, it's the biggest tax cut by far, of any candidate by far. But I'm not under the illusion that that's going to pass. They're going to come to me. They're going to want to raise it for the rich. Frankly, they're going to want to raise it for the rich more than anybody else," Trump said. "But the middle class has to be protected. The rich is probably going to end up paying more. And business might have to pay a little bit more. But we're giving a massive business tax cut."

Pressed on that last, confusing point - that business might pay more but also get a tax cut - Trump said he meant more than his existing proposal: "Excuse me. I said they might have to pay a little bit more than my proposal."

He didn't offer such a qualification for the wealthy until the next day.

4. I never said that! Cut everyone's taxes!

On Monday, May 9, he went on CNN to refute what he'd said the day before.

"I said that I may have to increase on the wealthy — I'm not going to allow it to be increased on the middle class — now, if I increase it on the wealthy, that means they're still going to be paying less than they're paying now. I'm not increasing it from this point, I'm talking about increasing from my tax proposal," Trump told CNN, insisting that overall there would be a tax decrease for the rich and middle class alike.

5. Maybe don't slash taxes by $10 trillion — slash taxes by $3 trillion, instead.

Trump senior economic adviser Larry Kudlow said Wednesday at an RNC event that the tax plan had been revised to only slash taxes by $3 trillion — a third of what was initially proposed — and lower the top individual tax rate to between 30-33 percent, up from the 25 percent initially proposed but below the current top tax rate of 39.6 percent. The campaign did not confirm this.

6. Scrap the earlier plan entirely. Here are new tax brackets.

Trump took his earlier tax plan offline before a major economic policy address in early August, where he hiked his initially proposed tax brackets from 10 percent, 20 percent and 25 percent to 12 percent, 25 percent and 33 percent. These brackets more closely mimic his party's past views on taxes.

PlayTrump Touts Childcare Deductions, Tax on U.S. Businesses Overseas Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 Trump Touts Childcare Deductions, Tax on U.S. Businesses Overseas 0:44
7. Maybe ditch, maybe keep a $1 trillion tax cut for small businesses (depending on who is asking).

Trump publicly backed away from a trillion-dollar tax cut aimed at small businesses in order to optimistically claim that his tax plan won't add to the debt. But his campaign privately told a leading small business group he'd keep it.

His campaign then reiterated to the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan group that analyzes tax plans, that he'd definitely get rid of it, according to a report by the New York Times on what they called a "trillion-dollar lie."

Current position: Despite Trump's frequent talk about helping working people, his tax plan so far seems to mostly benefit the wealthy. It's unclear whether or not his plan will include that small business tax cut.

VOTING FOR THE IRAQ WAR
1. Clinton voted for the war, so she has bad judgment.

Trump slammed Clinton in late June for her vote authorizing the invasion of Iraq.

"It all started with her bad judgment in supporting the War in Iraq in the first place. Though I was not in government service, I was among the earliest to criticize the rush to war, and yes, even before the war ever started," he falsely stated in his June 22 speech. (There is no evidence he opposed the invasion, but there is ample evidence that he supported it.)

2. It doesn't matter, people make mistakes.

Pressed on his running mate Pence's vote for the Iraq war in an interview on 60 Minutes, Trump said in July he didn't "care" because "it's a long time ago, and he voted that way and they were also misled."

"He's entitled to make a mistake every once in a while," Trump declared, telling CBS' Lesley Stahl of Clinton that "no, she's not" allowed to make a mistake herself.

Current position: It's OK that Trump's running mate voted for the Iraq war, but it's not OK that Clinton did.

PlayFROM JUNE 21: Clinton goes after Trump's economic plans Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM JUNE 21: Clinton goes after Trump's economic plans 3:11
GUNS
1. Get rid of gun-free zones

In a speech at the National Rifle Association convention on May 20, where Trump was endorsed by the country's most powerful gun group, Trump promised again to do away with gun-free zones, which include schools and military bases. At a campaign stop in Vermont, he had previously vowed to get rid of gun-free zones on his "first day."

2. No guns in classrooms, except maybe some guns in classrooms.

In an interview on May 22, the presumptive nominee advocated against, and then for, and then against, and then for guns in classrooms.

"I don't want to have guns in classrooms, although in some cases, teachers should have guns in classrooms, frankly," Trump said, offering up two distinct views in an interview days after he was endorsed the NRA. "Because teachers, you know — things that are going on in our schools are unbelievable."

3. I'm not advocating for guns in classrooms, but wait, yes I am.

Trump walked back his view that teachers should have guns a second later, then reiterated that some teachers should have guns.

"I'm not advocating guns in classrooms," he continued. "But remember, in some cases … trained teachers should be able to have guns in classrooms."

4. Let's put trained gunmen in schools.

Forty-eight hours later, Trump sought to clarify his muddled remarks, saying he wanted "school resource officers" to have guns in schools while slamming rival Hillary Clinton's criticism of his stance.

"The way she said it meant like every student should be sitting there carrying guns," Trump said on CNN on May 24. "If trained people had guns, you wouldn't have the carnage that you've had."

5. We should only get rid of some gun-free zones.

While he decried gun-free zones as "offering up candy to bad people," he backed away from axing all of them, telling CNN in the May 24 interview that they would only be eliminated "in some cases."

6. More guns would save lives.

Trump has repeatedly said that he wished there were other armed individuals present during terror attacks to fight back.

"I think it would've been a lot better if they had guns in that room, somebody could protect," Trump said after the San Bernardino shooting in December. "They could've protected themselves if they had guns."

In the wake of the deadly shooting in Orlando, Florida at a gay nightclub in June, Trump reiterated this view.

"It's too bad that some of the young people that were killed over the weekend didn't have guns, you know, attached to their hips, frankly, and you know where bullets could have flown in the opposite direction," he said on the "Howie Carr Show" on June 13, one day after the attack. "It would have been a much different deal. I mean, it sounded like there were no guns. They had a security guard. Other than that there were no guns in the room. Had people been able to fire back, it would have been a much different outcome."

(Despite Trump's assertions, there was an armed guard at the club who tried to stop the gunman, but he was unable to do so.)

At a rally in Atlanta on June 15, Trump declared that the outcome would have been different if "some of those great people that were in that club that night had guns strapped to their waist or strapped to their ankle."

PlayFROM JUNE 13: Donald Trump reacts to Orlando shooting: Criticizes Hillary Clinton, Obama Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM JUNE 13: Donald Trump reacts to Orlando shooting: Criticizes Hillary Clinton, Obama 5:44
7. I didn't actually mean arming clubgoers.

After he spent a week advocating for arming more of the victims (who were predominantly clubgoers, in addition to several club employees), Trump tweeted on June 20 that he didn't mean he wanted to arm clubgoers. Trump changed his stance just hours after the National Rifle Association pushed back against the idea of allowing people to bring weapons into nightclubs.

"I was obviously talking about additional guards or employees," Trump tweeted.

Current position: More guns are better, though the details are murky and evolving on how many gun-free zones would be abolished.

2011 INTERVENTION IN LIBYA
1. The intervention in Libya by the U.S.-led coalition was a terrible idea.

Asked in October 2015 if he felt the Middle East would be more stable with Libyan dictator Muammar Gadhafi and Iraq's authoritarian leader Saddam Hussein still in power, Trump told NBC News' Chuck Todd, "Of course it would be. You wouldn't have had your Benghazi situation, which is one thing which was just a terrible situation…But of course, it would. Libya is — is not even — nobody even knows what's goin' on over there. It's not even a country anymore."

A few weeks later, he was pressed again on CNN to say whether he felt the two leaders of brutal regimes should have been left in power.

"100 percent," Trump said. "I mean, look at Libya. Look at Iraq. Iraq used to be no terrorists. [Hussein] would kill the terrorists immediately, which is like now it's the Harvard of terrorism."

He continued: "If you look at Iraq from years ago, I'm not saying he was a nice guy, he was a horrible guy, but it was a lot better than it is right now. Right now, Iraq is a training ground for terrorists. Right now, Libya, nobody even knows Libya — frankly, there is no Iraq and there is no Libya. It's all broken up. They have no control. Nobody knows what's going on."

2. I've never offered a different opinion on Libya.

When then-rival Sen. Ted Cruz brought up Trump's 2011 support for the intervention, which Trump offered at the time via a video blog, during a February debate, Trump denied having ever supported Gadhafi's ouster.

"He said I was in favor in Libya," he said. "I never discussed that subject. I was in favor of Libya? We would be so much better off if Gadhafi would be in charge right now."

3. I guess I did support an intervention.

When CBS actually played the video of Trump discussing the subject — and supporting an intervention — in front of Trump in early June 2016, the presumptive nominee changed his mind and acknowledged the past video.

"That's a big difference from what we're talking about," Trump said. "I was for something, but I wasn't for what we have right now."

4. I wanted a surgical intervention, not a "strong" intervention.

When pressed during the CBS interview, Trump said he was for "surgical" intervention, not a "strong intervention."

"I didn't mind surgical. And I said surgical. You do a surgical shot, and you take him out. But I wasn't for what happened. Look at the way - I mean, look at with Benghazi and with all of the problems that we've had. It was handled horribly," he said.

"I think since then you've said you were never for intervention, so it's confusing," CBS's John Dickerson countered.

"I was never for strong intervention. I could have seen surgical where you take out Gadhafi and his group," Trump responded.

5. We really should have taken the oil in Libya, too, since we were there.

In the first debate, Trump inaccurately claimed ISIS now controls huge oil stores in Libya (they don't) and that the U.S. should have taken the oil after the intervention. (That would have violated the Geneva Conventions.)

Current position: As Trump put it, "I was for something, but I wasn't for what we have right now." That "something" seems to include violating the Geneva Conventions to seize Libyan oil.

JAPAN AND NUKES
1. Japan should have nuclear weapons.

In March, Trump said the U.S. should reconsider its policy of not allowing Japan to have nuclear weapons. He reiterated that view in April.

"It's not like, gee whiz, nobody has them. So, North Korea has nukes. Japan has a problem with that. I mean, they have a big problem with that. Maybe they would in fact be better off if they defend themselves from North Korea," Trump said on Fox News in April.

Host Chris Wallace followed up, asking, "With nukes?"

"Including with nukes, yes, including with nukes," Trump said.

2. I never said that!

But at a Sacramento rally in June, Trump accused Clinton of lying when she repeated his view as an example of his unfitness when it comes to matters of national security.

Clinton "made a speech, she's making another one tomorrow, and they sent me a copy of the speech. And it was such lies about my foreign policy, that they said I want Japan to get nuclear weapons. Give me a break," Trump said. "See they don't say it: I want Japan and Germany and Saudi Arabia and South Korea and many of the NATO states, nations, they owe us tremendously, we're taking care of all those people and what I want them to do is pay up."

Current position: It's unclear whether Trump would reverse U.S. policy to allow Japan to have nuclear weapons, but it's clear Trump doesn't like being reminded of the previous positions he took.

PlayFROM MAY 27: Former VP Mondale on Nuclear Dangers, Decision 2016 Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM MAY 27: Former VP Mondale on Nuclear Dangers, Decision 2016 15:04
CLIMATE CHANGE
1. I don't believe in it.

"I don't believe in climate change," he told CNN in September after a long history of calling it both a hoax and a Chinese invention to undermine U.S. business interests. In May 2016, he vowed to "renegotiate … at a minimum" the Paris climate agreement, one of the Obama administration's landmark achievements.

2. Global warming is threatening one of my golf courses.

A statement of environmental impact filed by the Trump International Golf Links & Hotel Ireland, owned by the presumptive Republican nominee, cited rising sea levels and extreme weather due to global warming as the reason the company needed to build a seawall to protect its coastal resort, Politico reported Monday. The sea wall is necessary protect the course from "global warming and its effects."

3. I never said climate change was a hoax.

During the first presidential debate in late September, Trump denied ever saying climate change was a hoax perpetuated by the Chinese (though you can still read his tweet on the matter here.)

4. Trump believes in climate change, but not that it's man-made.

Trump's campaign manager offered a more common Republican theory to explain Trump's views: Climate change is real, but it's "naturally occurring."

Current position: Global warming is real, but it's not man-made.

NATIONAL DEBT
1. Get rid of the national debt in 8 years.

On March 31, Trump told the Washington Post that the country needed to eliminate the national debt and that he could do it "fairly quickly" without raising taxes.

"I would say over a period of eight years," he said, arguing he could do it simply by renegotiating the country's trade deals. "I'm renegotiating all of our deals, Bob. The big trade deals that we're doing so badly on. With China, $505 billion this year in trade. We're losing with everybody."

2. Only pay down a little. Invest in infrastructure first.

Three weeks later, he told Fortune "you could pay off a percentage of it" in a decade but he wouldn't advise being too aggressive because the country's infrastructure needs to be rebuilt and it's a good time to borrow.

"It depends on how aggressive you want to be. I'd rather not be so aggressive," he said. "Don't forget: We have to rebuild the infrastructure of our country. We have to rebuild our military, which is being decimated by bad decisions. We have to do a lot of things. We have to reduce our debt, and the best thing we have going now is that interest rates are so low that lots of good things can be done that aren't being done, amazingly."

It's an argument progressive liberal economists like Paul Krugman could have (and actually have) made. Not only is it far from his original position, it's far from his party's view on the issue.

3. Pay off the debt by getting America's creditors to accept less.

Despite the U.S. economy being fundamentally grounded in its ability to borrow at very low interest rates, Trump told CNBC that he would negotiate with creditors to get them to accept less than the full amount owed.

"I would borrow, knowing that if the economy crashed, you could make a deal," Trump said.

Experts say this idea is pure fantasy, no matter how good Trump's deal-making skills are. In addition to imperiling the economy, the proposal could also be unconstitutional.

4. Don't worry about it — the U.S. can't default because we "print the money."

A week after suggesting that he could get U.S. creditors to accept less than the full amount, Trump defended his stance on CNN by calling himself "the king of debt" and railing against publications that reported his earlier proposal.

"People said I want to go and buy debt and default on debt, and I mean, these people are crazy. This is the United States government," he said on CNN on May 9." "First of all, you never have to default because you print the money, I hate to tell you, OK?"

He then advocated for buying back some of the government's debt at a discount, using interest rates to save the country money. It's a strategy that works may work for businesses but would be more difficult, if not impossible for the U.S. government, economists told the Washington Post.

"I understand debt better than probably anybody. I know how to deal with debt very well. I love debt — but you know, debt is tricky and it's dangerous, and you have to be careful and you have to know what you're doing," Trump said.

5. I won't try to renegotiate the national debt.

"We have to start chopping that debt down," Trump told CBS in June. "I wouldn't renegotiate the debt. I'd negotiate, if I do a deal in a corporation, as an example, and if the economy goes bad, I'll oftentimes renegotiate that debt. But that's a different thing. That's just a corporate thing. And other people like me, very big people in the world of business, they do that."

6. Take out new loans and pay back debt with new debt.

"I think it could be a good time to borrow and pay off debt, borrow debt, make longer-term debt," he said in the same June CBS interview.

7. My plans are deficit neutral.

"It will be deficit neutral," Trump said of his economic plan released in September. "It will be accomplished through a complete overhaul of our tax, regulatory, energy and trade policies."

8. Maybe borrow $10 trillion.

One of Trump's advisers echoed the skepticism many had of Trump's plans: that they would cost a lot more than Trump's tax plan would bring in.

Tom Barrack, an adviser, said Trump's policies would increase the national debt by $10 trillion — money the nation would have to borrow to accomplish Trump's plans.

Current position: Either "chop" the national debt using an approach that is still unclear, or add $10 trillion to the debt to accomplish plans.

PlayFROM JUNE 21: U.S. 'doesn't do business Trump's way,' Clinton says Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM JUNE 21: U.S. 'doesn't do business Trump's way,' Clinton says 6:08
ABORTION
1. Criminalize women who have abortions.

Though Trump said in 1999 that he was "very pro-choice," Trump has consistently claimed that he's against abortion, except for in cases of rape, incest, or to save the mother's life, since starting his bid last June.

But during an exclusive interview with MSNBC's Chris Matthews just after 1 p.m., Trump struggled to define his views on abortion aside from describing himself as "pro-life." When continually pressed for how he'd handle women who violated a theoretical ban on abortion, Trump said the "answer is that there has to be some form of punishment, yeah."

2. Let the states decide what to do about criminalizing abortion.

At 3:36 p.m., Trump put out a statement saying the issue is "unclear and should be put back into the states for determination."

3. Never mind. Don't punish the women.

He fully walked back his position that women should be punished for violating a theoretical abortion ban 80 minutes later, releasing a statement saying "the doctor or any other person performing this illegal act upon a woman would be held legally responsible, not the woman. The woman is a victim in this case as is the life in her womb."

4. Probably overturn Roe v. Wade, then let states handle it.

Pressed three times in the final presidential debate on whether he hoped his anti-abortion Supreme Court nominees should overturn Roe v. Wade, Trump said "that will happen automatically in my opinion. Because I am putting pro-life justices on the court."

He went on to say that after it's overturned states should handle it: "I will say this. It will go back to the states and the states will then make a determination."

Current position: Overturn Roe v. Wade, then let states decide it.

PlayFROM MARCH 30: Trump backs 'some form of punishment' for abortion Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM MARCH 30: Trump backs 'some form of punishment' for abortion 6:36
MONEY IN POLITICS
1. Accepting donations means a candidate is controlled by special interests.

Trump announced that he'd self-fund his campaign when he announced his presidential bid. This, he said, time and time again would help him better serve the country against the corrupting force of money in politics.

"By self-funding my campaign, I am not controlled by my donors, special interests or lobbyists. I am only working for the people of the U.S.!" he wrote in a September 5 Facebook post.

2. People can donate to me as long as they don't want anything in return.

Despite the self-funding promise, the Trump campaign quietly sent out fundraising emails, put a glossy donate option on its website and raked in millions. Still, Trump insists, it's about investment in the campaign — not the cash itself.

"I actually like the idea of investing in a campaign, but it has to be no strings attached," he said in a CBS interview.

3. The Trump campaign will not fully self-fund.

As the presumptive nominee, Trump has said he won't self-fund like he did in the primary.

"I'll be putting up money, but won't be completely self-funding," he told the Wall Street Journal in a May 4 interview, noting that he's created a finance committee and will tap his base for money going into the general election. He's hired Steven Mnuchin, a former Goldman Sachs partner who has a history of political donations across both sides of the aisle, to head up the committee.

This is a reversal, but only in rhetorical terms, since Trump isn't exactly self-funding his primary campaign, despite his loud protestations to the contrary. PolitiFact dubs his claim "half true" because Trump is pulling in big bucks from donors and most of his own contributions are technically loans or in-kind contributions, signaling that he may want to recoup those costs eventually.

Current position: Political donations are fine when those donations benefit the Trump campaign.

PlayFROM MARCH 29: The many flip-flops of Donald Trump Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM MARCH 29: The many flip-flops of Donald Trump 2:14
VIOLATING U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL LAWS WITH REGARD TO TORTURE, TERRORISM
1. The military will obey potentially illegal orders.

In December, Trump started demanding that the US target the families of ISIS members in addition to "bombing the sh*t" out of the terrorist organization. He went further in February, advocating for torture as a method of interrogation.

"I would bring back waterboarding, and I'd bring back a hell of a lot worse than waterboarding," Trump declared in the February debate just ahead of the New Hampshire primary. Calls for bringing torture back became a regular applause line at rallies, despite the likelihood that both of these ideas would require the American military to obey orders that violate international laws and federal anti-torture statutes.

Pressed at a debate on March 3 over whether the American military would obey his order to violate international laws and the Geneva Convention to do such things, Trump insisted they'd listen to him, despite condemnation from military leaders and conservatives.

"Frankly, when I say they'll do as I tell them, they'll do as I tell them," he said.

2. The military shouldn't break the law, after all.

He then reversed this position the very next day, on March 4, in a statement to the Wall Street Journal, saying he "will not order military or other officials to violate those laws and will seek their advice on such matters."

3. The laws forbidding torture should be changed so no one has to break them.

Not long after terrorist attacks in Brussels killed at least 28 people and injured dozens more on March 22, Trump called in to CNN to expand on his call to legalize waterboarding.

"Look, I think we have to change our law on the waterboarding thing, where they can chop off heads and drown people in cages, in heavy steel cages and we can't water board," Trump told CNN's Wolf Blitzer. "We have to change our laws and we have to be able to fight at least on almost equal basis."

When Blitzer reminded Trump that military leaders don't support torture and that it violates international agreements that the United States has signed, Trump called opposition to torture a "political decision."

"I would say that the eggheads that came up with this international law should turn on their television and watch CNN right now, because I'm looking at scenes on CNN right now as I'm speaking to you that are absolutely atrocious," Trump said. "And I would be willing to bet, when I am seeing all of the bodies laying all over the floor, including young, beautiful children laying dead on the floor, I would say if they watched that, maybe, just maybe they'll approve of waterboarding and other things."

Current position: Trump says he's against violating international laws or ordering others to do so, but wants to change the laws to legalize, at minimum, waterboarding.

PlayFROM MARCH 22: 'Waterboarding would be fine' for Paris terror suspect, Trump says Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM MARCH 22: 'Waterboarding would be fine' for Paris terror suspect, Trump says 6:31
VISAS FOR HIGH-SKILLED WORKERS
1. H-1B visas are bad for American workers.

Trump's immigration plan was published on his website in August 2015: it opposed the H-1B program, which allows non-immigrant visas for specialty occupations, arguing then that it was bad for American workers.

2. H-1B visas are good.

At the CNBC debate in October, Trump denied that he'd been critical about the program. "I am all in favor of keeping these talented people here so they can go to work in Silicon Valley," he said.

3. H-1B visas are still bad, according to Trump's unchanged website.

At the Fox News debate on March 3, some five months later, Fox News host Megyn Kelly pressed Trump on which of these conflicting views he supports.

4. H-1B visas are necessary: 'I'm changing.'

"I'm changing. I'm changing. We need highly skilled people in this country. If we can't do it, we will get them in. And we do need in Silicon Valley, we absolutely have to have. So we do need highly skilled," he said.

5. H-1B visas are definitely bad.

His campaign later released a statement reversing this shortly after the March 3 debate ended.

"Megyn Kelly asked about highly skilled immigration. The H-1B program is neither high-skilled nor immigration: These are temporary foreign workers, imported from abroad, for the explicit purpose of substituting for American workers at lower pay," Trump wrote in a statement. "I will end forever the use of the H-1B as a cheap labor program and institute an absolute requirement to hire American workers first for every visa and immigration program. No exceptions."

He reaffirmed this position in the GOP debate on March 10, one week later, vowing to end the program that he noted he uses himself as a businessman.

Current position: Back where he started — against the H-1B visa program.

PlayFROM JULY 12, 2015: A Look at Donald Trump's Evolving Positions Over the Years Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 FROM JULY 12, 2015: A Look at Donald Trump's Evolving Positions Over the Years 3:58
BORDER CONTROL AND THE REFUGEE CRISIS
1. The U.S. has a 'humanitarian' obligation to take in some Syrian refugees.

Trump initially said the country should absorb Syrian refugees.

"I hate the concept of it, but on a humanitarian basis, you have to," Trump told Bill O'Reilly on Fox News on a Tuesday night in September. "But you know, it's living in hell in Syria. There's no question about it. They're living in hell, and something has to be done."

2. The U.S. cannot and should not accept Syrian refugees.

The next day, Trump said the country couldn't welcome refugees fleeing the Syrian civil war.

"Look, from a humanitarian standpoint, I'd love to help. But we have our own problems," he said on Fox.

During the March debate, Trump defended his changing view.

"First time the question had been put to me, it was very early on. The migration had just started. And I had heard that the number was a very, very small number. By the second day, two or three days later, I heard the number was going to be thousands and thousands of people. You know, when they originally heard about it, they were talking about bringing very, very small numbers in, and I said, begrudgingly, well, I guess maybe that's OK," Trump said. "By the time I went back and studied it, and they were talking about bringing thousands and thousands, I changed my tune. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that."

3. Close the border.

"I'd close up our borders to people until we figure out what is going on," Trump said on Fox News the morning of the Brussels attacks claimed by ISIS that killed at least 28 and injured more than 270.

4. Don't close the border, just be careful.

"I didn't say shut it down — I said you have to be very careful, you have to be careful on who's coming into our country," he said the same day as the Fox News interview on CBSN, reiterating that people from Syria without papers shouldn't be allowed in.

Current position: Against closing the borders entirely. Against accepting Syrian refugees in the United States.

KU KLUX KLAN AND DAVID DUKE
1. 'I disavow, OK?'

After former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard and white nationalist David Duke began encouraging his followers to vote for the Republican front-runner, including making a plea on his radio show on February 25, Trump initially disavowed Duke's support in a press conference on February 26.

"I didn't even know he endorsed me. David Duke endorsed me? OK, all right. I disavow, OK?" Trump said.

2. 'I don't know anything about David Duke. OK?'

After disavowing David Duke on a Friday, Trump was asked about the Ku Klux Klan and Duke by CNN's Jake Tapper on Sunday. Trump claimed to know nothing of Duke or the KKK.

"I don't know anything about David Duke. OK? I don't know anything about what you're even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists. So I don't know. I don't know, did he endorse me or what's going on, because, you know, I know nothing about David Duke. I know nothing about white supremacists. And so you're asking me a question that I'm supposed to be talking about people that I know nothing about," Trump said, refusing three times to unequivocally condemn the support of white supremacists until he knew more about them.

3. 'I disavow, OK?' — part two.

After that cagey song and dance-like interview sparked outrage, Trump took to Twitter to clarify, tweeting a video of his Friday press conference in which he did disavow Duke.


 Follow
 Donald J. Trump ✔ @realDonaldTrump
As I stated at the press conference on Friday regarding David Duke- I disavow.
12:35 PM - 28 Feb 2016
  5,570 5,570 Retweets   10,682 10,682 likes
The next day on NBC's "Today," Trump blamed his refusal to condemn Duke and the KKK on a lousy earpiece but continued to hedge against disavowing the support of "groups" he doesn't know anything about, despite Savannah Guthrie's reminder that in the interview in question, Trump had been only been asked about the KKK and Duke.

Current position: Trump has disavowed Duke, despite a lengthy back-and-forth about whether he knows about him or not.

THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL
1. Keep the current deal with Iran, police it.

Trump was one of the few Republicans who didn't immediately promise to rip up the Iranian nuclear deal. The author of "The Art of the Deal" told his supporters that while it was the worst deal ever, they'd probably have to live with it.

"It's very hard to say, "We're ripping it up.' And the problem is by the time I got in there, they will have already received the $150 billion," Trump said, referring to a high estimate of how many of Iran's assets will be unfrozen as part of the deal (the White House says after Iran's debts are paid, it's closer to $56 billion).

"But I will police that deal," he said, touting his handling of business contracts. "I would police that contract so tough that they don't have a chance. As bad as the contract is, I will be so tough on that contract."

2. Renegotiate the nuclear deal with Iran.

In September, he went further.

"When I am elected president, I will renegotiate with Iran — right after I enable the immediate release of our American prisoners and ask Congress to impose new sanctions that stop Iran from having the ability to sponsor terrorism around the world," he wrote in an op-od for USA Today.

Current position: Renegotiate the deal.

PlayThese are the blue states Donald Trump needs to flip red to win Facebook Twitter Google Plus Embed
 These are the blue states Donald Trump needs to flip red to win 2:29
HEALTH CARE
1. Repeal Obamacare. Look to Canada for inspiration.

In August, Trump was asked repeatedly if he still supported the single-payer health care he'd touted in the past. He said America should have a private system but repeatedly praised Canada and Scotland's socialized system.

"As far as single-payer, it works in Canada. It works incredibly well in Scotland. It could have worked in a different age, which is the age you're talking about here," Trump said. "What I'd like to see is a private system without the artificial lines around every state … Get rid of the artificial lines, and you will have yourself great plans. And then we have to take care of the people that can't take care of themselves. And I will do that through a different system."

2. Repeal Obamacare. Cover everybody.

"I am going to take care of everybody," Trump told CBS in September. "I don't care if it costs me votes or not. Everybody's going to be taken care of much better than they're taken care of now."

3. Repeal Obamacare, but 'I like the mandate'

During a CNN town hall on February 18, Trump started to answer a question about how he'd replace the Affordable Care Act with health savings accounts, "which are great," but interrupted himself to talk at length about how he's "a self-funder." When pressed by interviewer Anderson Cooper about what would happen when Obamacare is repealed and the mandate disappeared, therefore allowing insurance companies to deny coverage to those with pre-existing conditions, Trump said:

"Well, I like the mandate. OK. So here's where I'm a little bit different. I don't want people dying on the streets and I say this all the time."

4. Repeal Obamacare. Replace it with something.

Trump was mocked in the February 25 debate for being vague about how he would replace Obamacare.

"You'll have many different plans. You'll have competition, you'll have so many different plans," he said at the debate, earning derision from Sen. Marco Rubio.

5. Repeal Obamacare. Not everyone will be covered.

His health care plan, finally released online in March, has far more in common with the kind of boilerplate health care proposals the rest of the Republican party touts than his earlier praise for Canada suggested it might.

It would likely cause 21 million people to lose their health insurance and cost about $270 billion over 10 years, according to the nonpartisan budget advocacy group Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget (CRFB).

It offers up unspecified amounts of grants to states to replace Medicaid, but it's not clear how or what those would look like, or how they would cover the millions of people that Trump's plan lets fall through the cracks. CRFB noted that block grants "could generate a wide range of savings" to the federal budget, but without details on them, it is "impossible to score any savings" from his plan.



http://www.politifact.com/personalities/donald-trump/





http://www.npr.org/2016/11/09/501451368/here-is-what-donald-trump-wants-to-do-in-his-first-100-days


———————————————————


1. Build a wall along the southern border that's taller than the arenas where Trump holds his rallies, taller than any ladder and one foot taller than the Great Wall of China. This "artistically beautiful" wall will be constructed out of hardened concrete, rebar and steel, and it will be "the greatest wall that you've ever seen" -- so great that the nation will likely one day name it "The Trump Wall."

2. Make Mexico pay for the wall. If Mexico refuses, then the United States will impound all remittance payments taken from the wages of illegal immigrants, cut foreign aid, institute tariffs, cancel visas for Mexican business leaders and diplomats, and increase fees for visas, border-crossing cards and port use.

3. "If I become president, we're all going to be saying 'Merry Christmas' again."

4. Get rid of Common Core because it's "a disaster" and a "very bad thing." Trump says he wants to give local school districts more control and might even eliminate the Department of Education.

5. The Environmental Protection Agency might also disappear.

6. Get rid of Obamacare and replace it with something "terrific" that is "so much better, so much better, so much better."

7. Knock down the regulatory walls between states for health insurance, making plans available nationally instead of regionally.

8. Rebuild the country's aging infrastructure -- especially bridges and airports that look like they belong in a third-world country -- for one-third of what the United States is currently paying for such projects.

[Republican candidate Donald Trump's platform: Because I said so]

9. Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cutting benefits.

10. Defund Planned Parenthood.

11. "I will take care of women, and I have great respect for women. I do cherish women, and I will take care of women."

12. Frequently use the term "radical Islamic terrorism."

13. Temporarily ban most foreign Muslims from entering the United States "until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on." Trump would allow exceptions for dignitaries, business people, athletes and others who have "proven" themselves.

14. Bar Syrian refugees from entering the country and kick out any who are already living here. Trump says wealthy Persian Gulf nations like Saudi Arabia should pay to set up a heavily guarded "safe zone" in Syria.

15. Heavily surveil mosques in the United States. Trump has said he's open to the idea of closing some mosques.

16. Create a database of Syrian refugees. Trump hasn't ruled out creating a database of Muslims in the country.

17. Never take a vacation while serving as president.

18. Prosecute Hillary Clinton for her use of a private e-mail server while serving as secretary of state.

19. Make medical marijuana widely available to patients, and allow states to decide if they want to fully legalize pot or not.

20. Stop spending money on space exploration until the United States can fix its potholes. Encourage private space-exploration companies to expand.

21. Pick Supreme Court justices who are "really great legal scholars."

22. Ensure that Iowa continues to host the nation's first presidential nominating contest.

23. Strengthen the military so that it's "so big and so strong and so great" that "nobody's going to mess with us."

24. Be unpredictable. "No one is going to touch us, because I'm so unpredictable."

25. Allow Russia to deal with the Islamic State in Syria and/or work with Russian President Vladimir Putin to wipe out shared enemies.

26. "Bomb the s--- out of ISIS." Also bomb oil fields controlled by the Islamic State, then seize the oil and give the profits to military veterans who were wounded while fighting.

27. Target and kill the relatives of terrorists.

28. Shut down parts of the Internet so that Islamic State terrorists cannot use it to recruit American children.

29. Bring back waterboarding, which the Obama administration considers torture. Trump has said he's willing to use interrogation techniques that go even further than waterboarding. Even if such tactics don't work, "they deserve it anyway, for what they're doing."

30. Leave troops in Afghanistan because it's such "a mess." Protect Israel. And increase U.S. military presence in the East and South China Seas.

31. Find an "out" clause in the Iran deal and then "totally" renegotiate the whole thing.

32. "I promise I will never be in a bicycle race. That I can tell you." (This promise is connected to criticism of Secretary of State John F. Kerry, who was injured while riding a bicycle amid the Iran negotiations.)

33. Refuse to call Iran's leader by his preferred title. "I guarantee you I will be never calling him the Supreme Leader... I'll say, 'Hey baby, how ya doing?' I will never call him the Supreme Leader."

34. Negotiate the release of all U.S. prisoners held in Iran before taking office. (Five hostages were recently released, including Washington Post reporter Jason Rezaian; Trump has taken some credit for this.)

35. Oppose the killing of journalists: "I hate some of these people, but I would never kill them."

36. Find great generals -- like the next Gen. Patton or Gen. MacArthur -- and do not allow them to go onto television news shows to explain their military strategy: "I don't want my generals being interviewed, I want my generals kicking a--." Trump likes generals who are rough, foul-mouthed and beloved by their troops.

37. Drop that "dirty, rotten traitor" Bowe Bergdahl out of an airplane into desolate Afghanistan without a parachute.

38. Fire "the corrupt and incompetent" leaders of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and dramatically reform the agency. Allow veterans to take their military identification card to any medical facility that accepts Medicaid patients to receive care. Embed satellite VA clinics in rural hospitals and underserved areas, and ensure than every VA hospital is permanently staffed with OBGYN doctors.

39. Invest more heavily in programs that help military veterans transition back to civilian life, including job training and placement services. Also increase funding for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injuries and mental health issues. Veterans who apply for a job at a VA facility will have five points added to their qualifying scores.

40. Bring back jobs from China -- and Mexico, Japan and elsewhere.

41. "I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created." Trump says cities like Reno, Nev., will "be a big fat beautiful beneficiary" of these new jobs.

42. Students at Wofford College in South Carolina, where Trump attended a town hall, will all have jobs at graduation.

43. Aggressively challenge China's power in the world by declaring the country a currency manipulator, adopting a "zero tolerance policy on intellectual property theft and forced technology transfer" and cracking down on China's "lax labor and environmental standards."

44. Rather than throw the Chinese president a state dinner, buy him "a McDonald's hamburger and say we've got to get down to work."

45. Replace "free trade" with "fair trade." Gather together the "smartest negotiators in the world," assign them each a country and renegotiate all foreign trade deals.

46. Put billionaire hedge fund manager Carl Icahn in charge of trade negotiations with China and Japan, and pick an ambassador to Japan who is "a killer," unlike the current ambassador, Caroline Kennedy.

47. Tell Ford Motor Co.'s president that unless he cancels plans to build a massive plant in Mexico, the company will face a 35 percent tax on cars imported back into the United States. Trump is confident he can get this done before taking office. (Last year he incorrectly said this had already happened.)

48. Force Nabisco to once again make Oreos in the United States. And bully Apple into making its "damn computers" and other products here.

49. Impose new taxes on many imports into the country. Numbers thrown around have included 32 percent, 34 percent and 35 percent.

50. Grow the nation's economy by at least 6 percent.

51. Reduce the $18 trillion national debt by "vigorously eliminating waste, fraud and abuse in the federal government, ending redundant government programs and growing the economy to increase tax revenues."

52. Cut the budget by 20 percent by simply renegotiating.

53. Get rid of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.

54. Simplify the U.S. tax code and reduce the number of tax brackets from seven to four. The highest earners would pay a 25-percent tax. The corporate tax rate would fall to 15 percent. Eliminate the "marriage penalty" for taxpayers and get rid of the alternate minimum tax.

55. No longer charge income tax to single individuals earning less than $25,000 per year or couples earning less than $50,000. These people will, however, be required to file a one-page form with the Internal Revenue Service that states: "I win."

56. Ensure that Americans can still afford to golf.

57. Allow corporations a one-time window to transfer money being held overseas, charging a much-reduced 10 percent tax.

58. Get rid of most corporate tax loopholes or incentives, but continue to allow taxpayers to deduct mortgage interest and charitable donations from their taxes.

59. On his first day in office, Trump would get rid of gun-free zones at military bases and in schools.

60. Use "common sense" to fix the mental health system and prevent mass shootings. Find ways to arm more of the "good guys" like him who can take out the "sickos." Get rid of bans on certain types of guns and magazines so that "good, honest people" can own the guns of their choice.

61. Impose a minimum sentence of five years in federal prison for any violent felon who commits a crime using a gun, with no chance for parole or early release.

62. Fix the background check system used when purchasing guns to ensure states are properly uploading criminal and health records.

63. Allow concealed-carry permits to be recognized in all 50 states.

64. Sign an executive order calling for the death penalty for anyone found guilty of killing a police officer.

65. Provide more funding for police training.

66. And provide more funding for drug treatment, especially for heroin addicts.

67. On the first day in office, terminate President Obama's executive orders related to immigration. This includes getting rid of "sanctuary cities" that Trump says have become refuges for criminals.

68. Deport the almost 11 million immigrants illegally living in the United States.

69. Triple the number of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers.

70. Continue to allow lowly paid foreign workers to come to the United States on temporary works visas because Trump says they are the only ones who want to pick grapes.

71. End birthright citizenship.

72. Say things that are politically incorrect, because the country does not have time to waste with political correctness.

73. Make America great again -- and strong again, as it has become too weak.

74. Be a cheerleader for America and bring the country's spirit back. "Take the brand of the United States and make it great again."

75. Bring back the American Dream.

76. Start winning again. "We're going to win so much -- win after win after win -- that you're going to be begging me: 'Please, Mr. President, let us lose once or twice. We can't stand it any more.' And I'm going to say: 'No way. We're going to keep winning. We're never going to lose. We're never, ever going to lose."


https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/01/22/here-are-76-of-donald-trumps-many-campaign-promises/


______________


Build that wall along the United States’ southern border, he’s promised — with a prediction that he can get it done within 18 months. It’s an immensely complex endeavor, far harder than Trump’s simple sell, but now, if he doesn’t get it done, and doesn’t get our southern neighbor to pay for it, he’s failed.

Shred or rework trade agreements with Mexico, China and many other countries — and if companies leave for overseas, hit them with huge tariffs.

Deport, deport, deport — if not en masse, through a federal deportation force, at least expulsions in numbers far greater than the records President Obama already set.

Dismantle Obamacare, which has eliminated discrimination based on preexisting conditions, given 20 million additional Americans health insurance and, though you wouldn’t know it, bent the overall cost curve. What does it get replaced with? “Something terrific,” TBD.

Pass a huge tax cut, roughly double the one George W. Bush sponsored, that delivers a windfall to the wealthiest Americans and a relative paltry sum to the middle class, never mind the debt-inflating impact.


Bring back jobs, especially manufacturing jobs, that have fled the country over the past few decades.

Smash ISIS, though he hasn’t said how, and impose some form of extreme vetting test to keep out people who seem like they might be violent extremist Muslims.

Build up the military — make it bigger and stronger than it’s ever been, costing billions upon billions, but who’s counting.

Ensure that “the crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon come to an end” — a pledge made in his nomination acceptance speech — by restoring law and order. How? Who knows. And revive inner cities that he says have become hell holes. How? Again, who knows.


Donald Trump: It's time to heal this divided nation

Autoplay: On | Off
Josh Greenman
JOSH GREENMAN
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Wednesday, November 9, 2016, 3:13 AM
Donald Trump shocked the world but not his supporters and now rockets into the White House with a mandate.

Some say he ran on nothing but his own overblown personality. Not so. Yes, he was supercharged by waging war against the media and the establishment and supposedly suffocating political correctness, but what distinguished him through the Republican primaries, and what he mostly stuck to through the general election, were a series of marquee pledges that will now become his governing agenda.

And he will have pressure to get those things accomplished given that the Senate and House both remain in Republican hands.

Build that wall along the United States’ southern border, he’s promised — with a prediction that he can get it done within 18 months. It’s an immensely complex endeavor, far harder than Trump’s simple sell, but now, if he doesn’t get it done, and doesn’t get our southern neighbor to pay for it, he’s failed.

Donald Trump elected 45th President of U.S.
Not Released (NR)
Donald Trump now has to live up to the promises that got him to the White House. (JEFF KOWALSKY/AFP/GETTY IMAGES)
Shred or rework trade agreements with Mexico, China and many other countries — and if companies leave for overseas, hit them with huge tariffs.

Deport, deport, deport — if not en masse, through a federal deportation force, at least expulsions in numbers far greater than the records President Obama already set.

Dismantle Obamacare, which has eliminated discrimination based on preexisting conditions, given 20 million additional Americans health insurance and, though you wouldn’t know it, bent the overall cost curve. What does it get replaced with? “Something terrific,” TBD.

NEW YORK, NY - NOVEMBER 08:  People react as they watch voting results at Democratic presidential nominee former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's election night event at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center November 8, 2016 in New York City. Clinton is running against Republican nominee, Donald J. Trump to be the 45th President of the United States.  (Photo by Elsa/Getty Images)
84 PHOTOS
VIEW GALLERY
Election Night 2016: Joy and despair as Donald Trump is elected president
Pass a huge tax cut, roughly double the one George W. Bush sponsored, that delivers a windfall to the wealthiest Americans and a relative paltry sum to the middle class, never mind the debt-inflating impact.

Russia celebrates as Trump takes White House on Election Day
Bring back jobs, especially manufacturing jobs, that have fled the country over the past few decades.

Smash ISIS, though he hasn’t said how, and impose some form of extreme vetting test to keep out people who seem like they might be violent extremist Muslims.

APRIL 22, 2010 PHOTO
Trump predicted he could build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border in 18 months. (MATT YORK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Build up the military — make it bigger and stronger than it’s ever been, costing billions upon billions, but who’s counting.

Ensure that “the crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon come to an end” — a pledge made in his nomination acceptance speech — by restoring law and order. How? Who knows. And revive inner cities that he says have become hell holes. How? Again, who knows.

Julian Castro: Trump win devastating to Hispanic community
And speaking of law and order, there’s that other promise: to make Hillary Clinton pay dearly for the crimes Trump is absolutely convinced, judgment of the FBI be damned, that she committed.

Just as Barack Obama entered the White House with a mandate for change and a Congress in his corner, Donald Trump has his own. He will now be expected to accomplish huge things.

“We will have so much winning if I get elected that you may get bored with the winning.”

Over to you, Mr. President-elect.


http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/donald-trump-big-list-promises-article-1.2865483

—————————
1. ‘Build a wall’ — and make Mexico pay for it

Trump announced his candidacy with the promise "to build a great, great wall on our southern border" and "have Mexico pay for that wall," and has repeated the call with conviction and consistency. But even his supporters have expressed skepticism that this centerpiece promise will see the light of day. An actual wall will be extremely costly, and it remains to be seen how Trump would force Mexico to pay for it.

"There are some that hear this is going to be 1,200 miles from Brownsville to El Paso, 30-foot high, and listen, I know you can’t do that," former Texas Gov. Rick Perry said recently. (Perry once denounced Trump but has since endorsed him.)

2. Temporarily ban Muslims from entering the United States

Following the December 2015 shooting in San Bernardino, Calif., Trump called for "a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on."

The next day, Trump admitted that details "would have to worked out" and said it wouldn’t apply to all Muslims, but remained vague on the timeline or the exemptions. Scholars were divided on whether banning people of an entire faith would violate the constitution.

In early May, Trump told the New York Times the ban would be in place by the end of his first 100 days in office. But on Fox News Radio a few days later, he said that it was "just a suggestion." A month later, he recommitted to the ban, tweaking it to now encompass immigrants from "nations tied to Islamic terror."

3. ‘Bring manufacturing (jobs) back’

Trump has said he will revitalize manufacturing in various iterations (i.e. "I’m going to be the greatest jobs president God ever created") and laid out how in his June 28 speech on the economy.

"I am going to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (and) I’m going tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers," he said. "I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade disputes, including the application of tariffs."

But most experts say that Trump wouldn’t be able to bring back all 4 million lost manufacturing jobs, which have been declining since the 1940s, well before the modern era of free trade deals and China’s economic rise.

"The short answer is that a small number of manufacturing jobs could be brought back, but probably at enormous cost," Alan Blinder,  a Princeton University economist who specializes in employment and trade and member of President Bill Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisors.

Susan Houseman, an economist with the W.E. Upjohn Institute, commended some of Trump’s proposals but said the issue is way more complex than Trump describes.

"The devil is in the details, which of course are entirely absent from Trump's speech and policy positions," she said, adding that suddenly changing trade policies and tariffs could actually lead to job losses.

Harry Moser, president of the Reshoring Initiative, is more optimistic that Trump could deliver, but said Trump would have to be in it for the long haul:"You can’t do it in a day, you can’t do it a year. I’d be delighted if we can do it in a decade or two."

4. Impose tariffs on goods made in China and Mexico

Warren Maruyama, a former general counsel to the U.S. Trade Representative under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, told us President Trump would have the authority under a variety of trade statutes to impose higher tariffs, but added "it would lead to a trade war and cost hundreds and thousands of jobs."

Hal Shapiro, an attorney specializing in international trade practice, pointed to Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 which gives the president the power to impose retaliatory tariffs on countries that violate trade agreements or engage in unfair trade practices under. But Shapiro said he can’t think of "a single instance" where a U.S. company offshoring is considered an unfair trade practice by the foreign country.

Trump’s promise also violates international trade rules, and he’s yet to propose exiting the World Trade Organization. So assuming the United States stays in the club, Beijing and Mexico City wouldn’t take his blanket tariffs lying down and would almost certainly retaliate.

5. Renegotiate or withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement and Trans-Pacific Partnership

Trump has been most critical of NAFTA and TPP, pinning them to Clinton and past and future job losses.

President Trump would have the authority to bow out of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Trans Pacific Partnership. But such a move may not increase American manufacturing jobs; an expert told us that leverage works in both directions.

"Countries like Mexico and Canada would have a list of things they’d want from the United States," Alan Wolff, a former U.S. deputy trade representative under President Jimmy Carter. "These are balanced, hard-to-negotiate agreements."

6. ‘Full repeal of Obamacare’ and replace it with a market-based alternative

Trump’s call to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a marketplace alternative is popular among rank-and-file Republicans. Larger majorities in Congress would be needed for repeal.

"If a Trump win is accompanied by Republican control of both houses of Congress, then some significant rollback is feasible and likely," said John McDonough, a health policy professor at Harvard University.

7. Renegotiate the Iran deal

Similarly, Trump has a shot at delivering on his promise to "renegotiate with Iran" even though Iran has said it won’t revisit the issue. Mark Dubowitz, executive director of the nonpartisan Foundation for Defense of Democracies, sees Iran’s attitude as posturing and pointed out that there’s precedent for a follow-up talk.

"The Iranians are continuing to negotiate, demanding significant economic concessions," Dubowitz said. "I have confidence both (Trump and Clinton) could renegotiate a better deal."

8. Leave Social Security as is

Trump has said repeatedly that voters like Social Security, so it should be left alone. Unlike most of his primary rivals, Trump vowed to leave the retirement age and benefits intact.

"There’s no way a Republican is going to beat a Democrat when the Republican is saying, 'We’re going to cut your Social Security’ and the Democrat is saying, 'We’re going to keep it and give you more,’ " Trump reportedly told House Speaker Paul Ryan, who wants entitlement cuts, in May.

But beyond calling for a crackdown on fraud and waste, Trump hasn’t specified how exactly he would save the program. He claims that his economic proposals would preserve Social Security by "making the country rich again," though that’s not supported by multiple analyses.

Trump’s commitment to this promise may also be wavering. His policy advisor Sam Clovis told Reuters in May that Trump would be open to changes to Social Security if elected.

9. Cut taxes

Under Trump’s proposed tax reforms, everyone would indeed get a cut. (The top 0.1 percent would receive more tax relief than the bottom 60 percent of taxpayers combined.)

Trump’s plan would bloat the federal deficit by at least $10 trillion over the next decade, even if you factor in economic growth.  This makes his promise of protecting Social Security harder to keep, given the program is one of the biggest line items in the budget.

On average, experts scored the Trump tax plan’s chances of passing as a D. The campaign has said the details of his tax plan are subject to change, and would soon announce a new policy. It hasn’t yet done so.

10. ‘Bomb’ and/or ‘take the oil’ from ISIS

A twist on his decade-old idea to seize Middle Eastern oil as repayment, Trump repeatedly makes this promise on the campaign trail, arguing it’ll cut off funding to ISIS.

The United States has already been bombing oil assets under ISIS control for quite some time, though.

"It’s like saying there won’t be a meteor strike in 1812," said Anthony Cordesman, a national security analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

As for how he would "take the oil," Trump told the Washington Post’s editorial board in March he would "circle" and "defend those areas" with ground troops, but wouldn’t commit to a number.

To keep this promise, Trump would have to invade Syria and convince the Assad regime to give up their claims on oil and gas in the country, according to Matthew Reed, vice president of Foreign Reports, a consultant firm specializing in Middle East oil politics

"If Trump wants to take oil from ISIS, he needs an invasion plan and an occupation plan covering years, plus a reconstruction plan worth billions of American dollars," Reed said.

Given that the United States and its allies have been systematically taking territory from ISIS without resorting to a full-scale invasion, Cordesman called the promise "purposeless" and "imbecilic."

The value of vague promises

Overall, Trump’s appeal may not be rooted in what he says he’ll do — rather it’s in the rhetoric itself.

The wall and Muslim ban, for example, are unrealistic, said Sabato of the University of Virginia, "but both these pledges got Trump airborne and still sustain him. As long as non-college, blue-collar whites like the sound of these promises, Trump will keep repeating them."

Some of Trump’s positions are actually in line with those of Clinton, such as protecting Social Security and increased skepticism toward trade.

Trump’s lack of detailed pledges and firm stances may be advantageous.

"Voters generally do not punish candidates for being vague, and in partisan elections voters actually prefer ambiguous candidates over precise ones," Stanford University political scientists Michael Tomz and Robert Van Houweling found in a study. "The reason, we find, is that ambiguity allows voters to 'see what they want to see’ in members of their own party."

Trump himself put it best in February: "Everything is negotiable."


http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2016/jul/15/donald-trumps-top-10-campaign-promises/



———————

1.) He Wants To Legalize Medical Marijuana 


2.) Trump Is Pro-Choice, For Schools

3.) Trump Wants Guns At School With Your Kids

4.) Trump Will Bring Christmas Back

5.) Trump Will Fight ISIS And Terrorism By Policing The Internet - See more at: http://hiphopwired.com/2016/11/09/donald-trumps-campaign-promises-effect/5/#sthash.5gGONRmG.dpuf

6.) Trump Wants Paid Leave For New Mothers

7.) Trump Wants To Help Sick Veterans


http://hiphopwired.com/2016/11/09/donald-trumps-campaign-promises-effect/

———————

"Repeal every single Obama executive order." (He has also pledged more specifically to "eliminate every unconstitutional executive order.")
"Repeal Obamacare." (On Trump's campaign website, he's less bullish, promising only to "ask Congress" on day one to repeal Obamacare immediately.)
"End the war on coal."
"Begin swiftly removing criminal illegal immigrants from this country." (More specifically, Trump has promised to do this in his "first hour" in office, "day one, before the wall, before anything.")
"Begin working on an impenetrable, physical, tall, powerful, beautiful, southern border wall."
Meet with Homeland Security officials and generals to begin securing the southern border.
"Notify all countries that refuse to take back dangerous illegal immigrants who have committed crimes in this country that they will lose access to our visa programs if they continue to do so."
Convene his top generals and inform them they have 30 days to come up with a plan to stop ISIS.
Fix the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Call the heads of major companies who are moving operations oversea to inform them that they'll face 35 percent tariffs.
"Contact countries and say…'Folks, we love protecting you, we want to continue to protect you but you're not living up to the bargain'…They're not paying what they're supposed to be paying—which is very little, by the way."
"Defend the unborn."
"Withdraw from TPP."
"Start taking care of our…military."
Suspend Syrian refugee resettlement.
"Notify our NAFTA partners of my intention to renegotiate the deal."
"Designate China as a currency manipulator."
"Direct every agency in government to begin identifying all wasteful job-killing regulations, and they are going to be removed."
"Get rid of gun-free zones [in] schools" and "military bases"—which would require repealing a 25-year-old federal law. ("My first day, it gets signed, okay? My first day. There's no more gun-free zones.")
"Ask Congress to pass 'Kate's Law'—named for Kate Steinle—to ensure that criminal aliens convicted of illegal reentry receive strong mandatory minimum sentences."
Learn the difference between Hezbollah and Hamas.
It's shaping up to be a busy day! Hillary Clinton, by contrast, has made only a few day-one promises, none of which is as concrete as shaking down European heads of state:

"Tackle the gun lobby to try to reduce the outrageous number of people who are dying from gun violence in our country."
"Reach out to Republicans and say, 'This is your chance to help millions of families and show that your party, the party of Lincoln, is better than Donald Trump.'"
"Work with both parties to pass the biggest investment in new, good-paying jobs since World War II."


SOURCED LINKS - http://www.motherjones.com/politics/2016/09/donald-trump-first-day-in-office

—————

Contract with the American Voter

Propose a Constitutional Amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress
Institute a hiring freeze on all federal employees to reduce federal workforce through attrition (exempting military, public safety, and public health)
Require for every new federal regulation, two existing regulations must be eliminated.
Institute a five year-ban on White House and Congressional officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service
Create a lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government.
Institute a complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections.
Announce intention to renegotiate NAFTA or withdraw from the deal under Article 2205.
Announce withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Direct Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator.
Direct the Secretary of Commerce and U.S. Trade Representative to identify all foreign trading abuses that unfairly impact American workers and direct them to use every tool under American and international law to end those abuses immediately.
Lift the restrictions on the production of $50 trillion dollars’ worth of job-producing American energy reserves, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal.
Lift the Obama-Clinton roadblocks and allow vital energy infrastructure projects, like the Keystone Pipeline, to move forward.
Cancel billions in payments to U.N. climate change programs and use the money to fix America’s water and environmental infrastructure.
Cancel every unconstitutional executive action, memorandum and order issued by President Obama.
Begin the process of selecting a replacement for Justice Scalia from one of the 20 judges on my list, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Cancel all federal funding to Sanctuary Cities.
Begin removing the more than 2 million criminal illegal immigrants from the country and cancel visas to foreign countries that won’t take them back.
Suspend immigration from terror-prone regions where vetting cannot safely occur. All vetting of people coming into our country will be considered extreme vetting.
Work with Congress on a Middle Class Tax Relief And Simplification Act.An economic plan designed to grow the economy 4% per year and create at least 25 million new jobs through massive tax reduction and simplification, in combination with trade reform, regulatory relief, and lifting the restrictions on American energy. The largest tax reductions are for the middle class. A middle-class family with 2 children will get a 35% tax cut. The current number of brackets will be reduced from 7 to 3, and tax forms will likewise be greatly simplified. The business rate will be lowered from 35 to 15 percent, and the trillions of dollars of American corporate money overseas can now be brought back at a 10 percent rate.
Work with Congress on a End The Offshoring ActEstablishes tariffs to discourage companies from laying off their workers in order to relocate in other countries and ship their products back to the U.S. tax-free.
Work with Congress on a American Energy & Infrastructure ActLeverages public-private partnerships, and private investments through tax incentives, to spur $1 trillion in infrastructure investment over 10 years. It is revenue neutral.
Work with Congress on a School Choice And Education Opportunity ActRedirects education dollars to gives parents the right to send their kid to the public, private, charter, magnet, religious or home school of their choice. Ends common core, brings education supervision to local communities. It expands vocational and technical education, and make 2 and 4-year college more affordable.
Work with Congress on a Repeal and Replace Obamacare ActFully repeals Obamacare and replaces it with Health Savings Accounts, the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines, and lets states manage Medicaid funds. Reforms will also include cutting the red tape at the FDA: there are over 4,000 drugs awaiting approval, and we especially want to speed the approval of life-saving medications.
Work with Congress on a Affordable Childcare and Eldercare Act.Allows Americans to deduct childcare and elder care from their taxes, incentivizes employers to provide on-side childcare services, and creates tax-free Dependent Care Savings Accounts for both young and elderly dependents, with matching contributions for low-income families.
Work with Congress on an End Illegal Immigration ActFully-funds the construction of a wall on our southern border with the full understanding that the country Mexico will be reimbursing the United States for the full cost of such wall; establishes a 2-year mandatory minimum federal prison sentence for illegally re-entering the U.S. after a previous deportation, and a 5-year mandatory minimum for illegally re-entering for those with felony convictions, multiple misdemeanor convictions or two or more prior deportations; also reforms visa rules to enhance penalties for overstaying and to ensure open jobs are offered to American workers first.
Work with Congress on a Restoring Community Safety Act.Reduces surging crime, drugs and violence by creating a Task Force On Violent Crime and increasing funding for programs that train and assist local police; increases resources for federal law enforcement agencies and federal prosecutors to dismantle criminal gangs and put violent offenders behind bars.
Work with Congress on a Restoring National Security Act.Rebuilds our military by eliminating the defense sequester and expanding military investment; provides Veterans with the ability to receive public VA treatment or attend the private doctor of their choice; protects our vital infrastructure from cyber-attack; establishes new screening procedures for immigration to ensure those who are admitted to our country support our people and our values
Work with Congress on a Clean up Corruption in Washington Act.Enacts new ethics reforms to Drain the Swamp and reduce the corrupting influence of special interests on our politics.


http://www.breitbart.com/2016-presidential-race/2016/10/22/donald-trump-contract-american-voter-100-days-5338007/

———————————

From Google : Trump issues

parse later, too much work.

—————————

https://www.donaldjtrump.com/issues

Shaky at best, parse what you can later.

———————




https://www.donaldjtrump.com/policies/


———————————

—————

The wall

'Lock her up'

Muslim ban

Repeal Obamacare

Unravel NAFTA and TPP

http://www.cnn.com/2016/11/09/politics/donald-trump-campaign-promises/


————


Bringing back jobs

Major investment in cities and infrastructure.

Mexico will pay for the wall.


Healthcare that beats Obamacare

Global security


https://thinkprogress.org/trump-must-now-put-up-or-shut-up-79f5844107f4#.1oqogtsrw

——————————


1. Trump has promised to build a border wall between Mexico and the United States.

2. He has also promised to deport 11 million immigrants.

3. Trump has promised to create millions of jobs.

4. He has pledged to repeal the Affordable Care Act.

5. Trump has said that he would appoint justices to the Supreme Court who would overturn Roe v. Wade.

6. He would get rid of Common Core in our education systems.

7. Trump has promised to “bomb the sh*t out of ISIS.”

8. He wants to bring back waterboarding.

9. Trump has promised to severely limit the immigration of Syrian refugees into our country.

10. And he proposed a ban on Muslims.


————————————



Build wall on southern US border

Get Mexico to pay for the wall

Build Safe zone in Syria

Get gulf nations to pay for it 

take care of women

never be in a bicycle race

merry christmas 

bomb islamic states oil

approve waterboarding

find great generals who won’t go on TV ????

renegotiate foreign trade deals

surveil certain mosques

make database for syrian refugees

send back syrian refugees

rebuild aging infrastructure

reduce national debt (18 trillion)

save social security without benefit cuts

repeal and replace obamacare

end common core

take jobs from china, japan, mexico


be cheerleader for america

get rid of the EPA

defund planned parenthood

ban most foreign muslims from entering the US

work with Putin to wipe out shared enemies

pick supreme court justices who are really great legal scholars

kill terrorists relatives

shut down parts of the internet

leave troops in Afghanistan 

Find and out-clause in the Iran Deal

Oppose killing journalists

Challenge China’s power in the world

Replace free trade with fair trade

Appoint billionaire hedge fund manager Carl Icahn in charge of trade negotiations with China

Grow the DFP by atleast 6%

Repeal Obama’s executive actions on immigration

Ensure that American’s can still afford golf ???

Get rid of most corporate tax loopholes

Get ride of income tax for som earners

Allow concealed carry permits to be recognized in all 50 states

provide more funding for police training

provide more funding for drug treatment

end birthright citizenship


Make America Great Again

https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/many-trump-supporters-dont-believe-his-wildest-promises--and-they-dont-care/2016/06/06/05005210-28c4-11e6-b989-4e5479715b54_story.html


____________________

ABOUT AND SOURCES

I know I have a huge responsibility to responsibly 

connect to privacy policy and terms and conditions?

———————


CONTACT

to do
email letter every week after his campaign to keep up with his promises





